RFC-10 Device Locking (#114)
tango-controls/rfc: 10/RequestReply.md

A Client owning a Device Lock MAY:
* revoke the Device Lock by the DeviceServer command UnLockDevice,
* renew the Device Lock activation by the DeviceServer command ReLockDevices
A Locking Tango Exception SHALL be thrown if the Device Lock is not active anymore.

A Device Lock is defined by:
* a Client Identification (TODO specify in this RFC) of the owner
* the Client Identification of the previous owner (Mandatory?)
* a timestamp corresponding of the locking activation
* a counter (?) representing the number of valid activation from the same Client 
* the activation time in second defining the locking period from the last activation timestamp  # time_t in the implementation?)

A Device Lock SHALL be deactivated when:
* The Client which locked the Devcie call DeviceServer command UnLockDevice for the locked Device,
* or Time of activation expired,
* or the Connection to the Client is lost,
* The Device Server is reinitialised.

A Client Identication SHOULD cary these information:
* Hostname where the Client process runs
* PID of the Client process
* IP of the Client connection

> It is recommended to include any other informations which may help the administrators of the system.  

Author: I am not sure if we should specify this here, as the current implementation differ in this informations for c++ and cpp clients.

NOTE All GROUPED REQUESTS should be logged once with the same information as the unique request

### Device Locking
A Client has the possibility to avoid any modification of a Device from other Clients. This system is so-called Device Lock. The Device Server has here the role and the responsibility to apply this mechanism.

The following specifies the Device Lock system:  
* Only one Device Lock per Device SHALL be activated.
* A Device Lock SHALL be only owned by one Client.

> When a Client activates a Device Lock, the Server MUST reject any of the following request from other Client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Client activates a Device Lock, the Server MUST reject any of the following requests from any other Client:
```

* Command call except for State Command, Status Command and all commands listed in the Allowed Commands list (described further down).
* Write Attribute Request (including the atomic Write Read request)
* Write Pipe Request (including the atomic Write Read request)
* Setting Attribute Configuration
* Setting Pipe Configuration
* Setting Polling Configuration
* Setting Logging Configuration

> In general it is RECOMMANDED to block any request resulting a mutation of a Device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general it is RECOMMENDED to block any request resulting in a mutation of a Device.
```

> An Allowed Command is not affected by any the Device Lock, even this implies a modification of the Device state. The DeviceServer define a list of Allowed Command per Device Class which can only be changed at the Initialisation phase (TODO find the exact term) of the Device Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Allowed Command is not affected by the Device Lock, even if this command execution implies a modification of the Device state. The Device Server defines a list of Allowed Commands per Device Class which can only be changed at the Initialisation phase (TODO find the exact term) of the Device Server.
```

TODO: Explain how to set/get this list?

Other Clients have the possibility to check a Device Lock is currently activated (TODO See DeviceServer command)

> The request of a Device Lock is done throught the DeviceServer command (?). The protocol of activation SHALL be the responsibility of the Device Server, following this sequence: (?)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request of a Device Lock is done through the Device Server command (?). The protocol of activation SHALL be the responsibility of the Device Server, following this sequence: (?)
```

In case of failure of the activation of a Device Lock the Device Server SHALL throw a (LOCKING?) Tango Exception.
A Locking Exception is an Exception with the id "API_DeviceLocked".

A Client owning a Device Lock can:
* revoke the Device Lock by the DeviceServer command(?)
* renew the Device Lock activation by the DeviceServer command (in the code lock and relock seem to be from the same effect apart that lock does not need an active lock?)
A Locking Tango Exception SHALL be thrown if the Device Lock is not active anymore

A Device Lock is defined by:
* a Client Identification (TODO specify in this RFC) of the owner
* the Client Identification of the previous owner (Mandatory?)
* a timestamp corresponding of the locking activation
* a counter (?) representing the number of valid activation from the same Client 
* the activation time in second defining the locking period from the last activation timestamp  # time_t in the implementation?)

The desactivation  of a Device Lock is defined by these conditions:
* Time of activation expired
* The Connection to the Client is lost
* The Device Server is reinitialised 
* ... TODO

> A Client Identication SHOULD cary these information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Client Identification SHOULD carry these information:
```
